https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-interview-questions?source=sl_frs_nav_playlist_video_clicked

1. Define and explain the three basic types of cloud services and the AWS products that are built based on them?
The three basic types of cloud services are:
Computing
Storage
Networking
Here are some of the AWS products that are built based on the three cloud service types:
Computing - These include EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Auto-Scaling, and Lightsat.
Storage - These include S3, Glacier, Elastic Block Storage, Elastic File System.
Networking - These include VPC, Amazon CloudFront, Route53


2. What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?
AWS regions are separate geographical areas, like the US-West 1 (North California) and Asia South (Mumbai). On the other hand, availability zones are the 
areas that are present inside the regions. These are generally isolated zones that can replicate themselves whenever required.


https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-auto-scaling
What is AWS Auto Scaling?
AWS Auto Scaling is a service that helps the user to monitor applications and automatically adjusts the capacity to maintain steady, predictable 
performance at the lowest possible cost.

Benefits of Auto Scaling
Auto Scaling your application leads to the following benefits:
Better fault tolerance
High availability of resources
Better cost management
High reliability of resources
The high flexibility of resources

In Auto Scaling, creating a backup, and restoring the data is an essential part. This can be done by creating an EBS instance. EBS (elastic backup store) 
is responsible for creating volume backups. It consists of two backups, namely, snapshots and AMI.

How Does AWS Auto Scaling work?
Configure a single unified scaling policy per application source.
Explore the application and create a system that adds and removes EC2 instances in response to the requirement.
Choose the service that you want to scale up or down.
Select what to optimize. Based on a schedule, scale your application in response to predictable load changes. 
Keep tracing the scaling load and maintain a steady count of instances.


https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-auto-scaling
What is a Load Balancer?
A load balancer behaves as a reverse proxy and performs the responsibility of delivering network traffic to various cloud servers. With the help of a load 
balancer, flexibility, and fault tolerance of an application increases.

For example, usually, when there is high network traffic application might end up crashing, but the AWS load balancer manages the network traffic and 
avoids challenges like system crash.

Moving forward, let's understand the different types of load balancers. 

Types of Load Balancers
The three types of load balancers are:
Classic load balancer
Application load balancer
Network load balancer

Classic Load Balancer
It is widely used in EC2 instances and is a basic type of load balancer.
Based on IP address and TCP port, the classic balancer routes the traffic between backend servers and users.
This balancer does not support host-based routing and results in low efficiency of resources.

Application Load Balancer
It is responsible for performing the tasks in the application layer of the OSI model and is the advanced form of load balancing.
It is used when there are HTTP and HTTPS traffic routing.
It supports host-based and path-based routing.

Network Load Balancer
It performs the task at layer 4 of the connection level in the OSI model.
Its primary purpose is to route TCP traffic.
It can manage a massive amount of traffic and is suitable for managing low latencies.



https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-interview-questions?source=sl_frs_nav_playlist_video_clicked
17. What is the difference between stopping and terminating an EC2 instance? 
While you may think that both stopping and terminating are the same, there is a difference. When you stop an EC2 instance, it performs a normal shutdown 
on the instance and moves to a stopped state. However, when you terminate the instance, it is transferred to a stopped state, and the EBS volumes attached
 to it are deleted and can never be recovered. 

18. What are the different types of EC2 instances based on their costs?
The three types of EC2 instances are:
On-demand Instance-
It is cheap for a short time but not when taken for the long term
Spot Instance-
It is less expensive than the on-demand instance and can be bought through bidding. 
Reserved Instance-
If you are planning to use an instance for a year or more, then this is the right one for you.

