//  Link: https://subscription.packtpub.com/book/virtualization-and-cloud/9781788393362/1/ch01lvl1sec10/cloud-service-models-and-cloud-deployment-models

Cloud service models  
All workloads in a cloud scenario use resources from an extremely large resource pool that is operated (managed) by you or a cloud service provider. These
 resources include servers, storage, networks, applications, services, and much more.

The cloud service models describe to what extent your resources are managed by yourself or by your cloud service providers.

The offers are mainly categorized into the following service models:

On-premises: On-premises describes a model in which the user manages all resources alone.
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): IaaS describes a model in which the cloud provider gives the consumer the ability to create and configure resources from 
the computing layer upwards. This includes virtual machines, containers, networks, appliances, and many other infrastructure-related resources.
Platform as a Service (PaaS): PaaS gives the consumer an environment from the operating system upwards. So the consumer is not responsible for the underlying 
infrastructure.
Software as a Service (SaaS): SaaS is the model with the lowest levels of control and required management. A SaaS application is reachable from multiple 
clients and consumers, and the owning consumer doesn't have any control over the backend, except for application-related management tasks.


Cloud deployment models
Cloud deployment models describe the way in which resources are provided in the cloud.

Which cloud deployment models are available?
1. The deployment model based on the on-premises service model is called the private cloud. A private cloud is an environment/infrastructure, built and 
operated by a single organization, which is only for internal use.
2. The deployment model based on the IaaS and the PaaS service model is called the public cloud. A public cloud is an offer from a service provider 
(for example, Microsoft Azure), that can be accessed by the public. This includes individuals as well as companies.
3. There is still a third deployment model available, which is the hybrid cloud. A hybrid cloud combines parts of the private and public clouds. It is defined 
as a private cloud environment at the consumer's site, as well as the public cloud infrastructure that the consumer uses.