What is Cloud Computing? //  Link: https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/what-is-aws?source=sl_frs_nav_playlist_video_clicked
Cloud computing is the delivery of online services (such as servers, databases, software) to users. With the help of cloud computing, storing data on local 
machines is not required. It helps you access data from a remote server. Moreover, it is also used to store and access data from anywhere across the world.

What is AWS?
Amazon web service is an online platform that provides scalable and cost-effective cloud computing solutions.
AWS is a broadly adopted cloud platform that offers several on-demand operations like compute power, database storage, content delivery, etc., to help 
corporates scale and grow.


Applications of AWS-
AWS enables businesses to build a number of sophisticated applications. Organizations of every industry and of every size, can run every imaginable use 
case on AWS. Here are some of the most common applications of AWS:
1. Storage and Backup
One of the reasons why many businesses use AWS is because it offers multiple types of storage to choose from and is easily accessible as well. It can be 
used for storage and file indexing as well as to run critical business applications.
2. Websites
Businesses can host their websites on the AWS cloud, similar to other web applications. 
3. Gaming
There is a lot of computing power needed to run gaming applications. AWS makes it easier to provide the best online gaming experience to gamers across the 
world.
4. Mobile, Web and Social Applications
A feature that separates AWS from other cloud services is its capability to launch and scale mobile, e-commerce, and SaaS applications. API-driven code on 
AWS can enable companies to build uncompromisingly scalable applications without requiring any OS and other systems.


Companies using AWS-
Whether it’s technology giants, startups, government, food manufacturers or retail organizations, there are so many companies across the world using AWS to 
develop, deploy and host applications. According to Amazon, the number of active AWS users exceeds 1,000,000. Here is a list of companies using AWS:
Netflix
Intuit
Coinbase
Finra
Johnson & Johnson
Capital One
Adobe
Airbnb
AOL
Hitachi


Advantages of AWS Services-
The power of AWS services lies in the fact that it enables businesses to reach the marketplaces with little initial investment. Here are some advantages of 
AWS services:
1. Security
There is a false misconception that data stored in a public cloud is not secure. On the contrary, not only does AWS offer security tools that are cheaper 
than other alternatives, but it is one of the most secure, extensive, and reliable cloud platforms.  
2. Global Availability 
AWS has 80 Availability Zones across 25 geographic regions global data centers. 
2. Scalability and Flexibility 
AWS offers unlimited flexibility and scalability on demand. This enables organizations to plan their infrastructure roadmap on a subscription basis without 
full commitment.
3. Little Investment 
AWS cloud services enable companies to save expenditures on extra software and hardware. There is no physical data required, which ultimately lowers down 
operating costs. 


Now, that we have understood what is AWS, advantages and application, let us know the AWS services.



AWS Services
Amazon has many services for cloud applications. Let us list down a few key services of the AWS ecosystem and a brief description of how developers use 
them in their business.

Amazon has a list of services:
-Compute service
-Storage
-Database
-Networking and delivery of content
-Security tools
-Developer tools
-Management tools


1. Compute Service
These services help developers build, deploy, and scale an application in the cloud platform.

AWS EC2
It is a web service that allows developers to rent virtual machines and automatically scales the compute capacity when required.
It offers various instance types to developers so that they can choose required resources such as CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity based on 
their application requirements.

AWS Lambda
It is a serverless compute service. It is also responsible for executing code for applications.
It helps you execute a program without the hassle of managing servers.


2. Storage
AWS provides web data storage service for archiving data. Also, its primary advantage is disaster data recovery with high durability.

Amazon S3
It is an open cloud-based storage service that is utilized for online data backup.
Amazon S3 provides storage through a web services interface and is designed for developers where web-scale computing can be easier for them.

Amazon EBS
It provides a high availability storage volume for persistent data. It is mainly used by Amazon EC2 instances.
EBS volumes are used explicitly for primary storage such as file storage, databases storage, and block-level storage.


3. Database
AWS database domain service offers cost-efficient, highly secure, and scalable database instances in the cloud.

DynamoDB
It is a flexible NoSQL database service that offers fast and reliable performance with no scalability issues.
It is a multi-region and durable database with instant built-in security, backup and restores features.

RDS
It is a managed distributed relational database cloud service that helps developers to operate and scale a database in a simple manner.
We launched it to simplify the setup, operation, and scaling process for developers while accessing a relational database.


4. Networking and Delivery of Content
It offers a highly secure cloud platform and connects your physical network to your private VN with a high transfer speed.

VPC
It helps a developer to deploy AWS resources, such as Amazon EC2 instances into a private virtual cloud.
It gives you control over the complete cloud network environment, including the section of your IP address range, subnets, route table configuration, and 
network gateways.
With this, developers can both IPv4 and IPv6 at a time for your resources in a highly secure environment.

Route 53
It is a web service with a highly available Domain Name System (DNS) that helps users to route software by translating the text into an IP address.
We launched it for developers to provide them a cost-effective method of routing end users to cloud applications. 


6. Developer Tools
It helps a user build, deploy, and run an application source code automatically. It also updates the server and instance on the workload.

CodeStar
It is a service designed to manage application development in a single place. Here, developers can quickly develop, build and deploy applications on AWS

Code Build
This removes the hassle of managing physical servers and helps developers build and test code with continuous scaling.
In simple words, it compiles your code, executes unit tests, and gives output artifacts that are ready to deploy.


5. Security, Identity & Compliance
It helps in monitoring a safe environment for your AWS resources by providing limited access to specific users.

IAM
Identity Access Management is a framework that helps in maintaining access to AWS services in a secure way.
The service gives you Shared access to your AWS account and Secure access to AWS services that run on the AWS EC2 application. 
Note: Click here, to know about IAM.  Link: https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/aws-tutorial/aws-iam

KMS
It enables users to create and manage the encryption keys that are used for encrypting data.
The service includes a key generation method where digital sign within your applications becomes easier.


7. Management Tools
Using this service, an individual can optimize costs, minimize risks, and automate all the resources running efficiently on the AWS infrastructure.

Cloud Watch
It is a monitoring tool for AWS resources and customer applications running on the AWS platform.
The service helps you gather and access all your operational data in the form of logs from a single interface.

Cloud Formation
This service helps you in monitoring all your AWS resources in one place so that you can spend minimum time managing those resources and maximum time 
developing applications.
It allows developers to manage their cloud infrastructure either in a text file or a template.
